**Date:** 05/30/2020

**Entry:** Figured I should probably keep some form of record as to what I've been doing on this project. It seems like it's going to grow into something fairly large so I am keen to begin documenting well.

I've been working on the code for about a week now. Inspired by a reddit post that I can no longer remember I decided to take a deep dive into PEGs. That led me to Guido Van Rossum's talk "Writing a PEG parser for fun and profit", in which he explores the specifics of rewriting PGen (the python parser generator) as a PEG parser generator. He also produced an excellent blog series on the topic which has formed the foundation for this work so far.

The last few days I have written a lot of code. So far I've written an tokenizer and a parser for the meta-grammar describing the generic form of a PEG. I am currently in the process of writing a code generator to emit a parser for any given grammar. In doing so I will be able to make the project self hosting, as the "meta-parser" will be able to generate a grammar for the meta-grammar. In turn this bootstrapping process will make it easier to add more and more features simply by enhancing the grammar.

There are many interesting areas I could go with this project, and it sort of encompasses a lot of what I am interested in. PEGs do not typically allow for left recursion, and as such parsers don't tend to implement it, but with some interesting graph theory and oracle programming it is possible to implement it. This is an avenue that will nicely meet some theoretical urges of mine in both math and computer science. Atop that, there are a lot of formal language niceties which can be explored in a parsing project like this. Questions like how large a grammar can I generate a parser for? What sorts of grammars and expressions can I parse? and may others. Lastly, the packrat parsing algorithm has only been around 15 years or so and is not widely used, but memory is cheap now and having a parser which can run in linear time is a tantilising prospect. Exploring the limits and limitations of packrat parsing and its place in the world as opposed to other methods is very exciting.
